(The episode begins and we see what looks like the beginning of the original Pokémon video games, but it soon transitions into animation as we see a Nidorino and a Gengar battle in a stadium full of screaming fans)
Announcer: And Nidorino begins the battle with a Horn Attack! Oh, but Gengar bounces right back! And there it is! The Hypnosis power of Gengar! This could be the end of Nidorino. Wait, the trainer recalls Nidorino! Which Pokémon will he use now? Oh! It's Onix! And now this giant Pokémon's on the attack! Oh, but Gengar jumps aside. Gengar is moving beautifully today, it's training is top notch. No doubt about it!
???: Yes. I am Ash.
Narrator: Ash Ketchum is a boy from Pallet Town.
Ash: And now that I'm ten, I can finally get my Pokémon license.
Narrator: Ten-year-olds can receive a beginning Pokémon from their local Pokémon expert. In Ash's case, Professor Oak.
Ash: I will journey to gain the wisdom of Pokémon training. And I hereby declare to the Pokémon of the world. I will be a Pokémon master. Pokémon master! That is what I'll --
Delia Ketchum: Ash, get to bed! It's 11 o'clock and you should be asleep.
Ash: But tomorrow I begin my Pokémon journey -- I can't sleep.
???: I know the feeling, Ash. I was restless on the day I started my Pokémon journey. I was tossing and turning, debating which Pokémon I would take as my starter. But I knew that if I didn't sleep, I wouldn't even have the strength and energy to begin my journey.
Ash: You have a point, Ben, but I'm just to pumped up to sleep.
Delia: Well if you can't sleep, you should at least get ready for tomorrow. Here, watch this.
(Delia changes the channel to a program featuring Professor Oak)
Prof. Oak: Good evening, Pallet. Tomorrow's the big day for the newest class of Pokémon students. I'd like to introduce you to Bulbasaur, Charmander and Squirtle. Each one is available for new trainers. Which one shall you choose?
Delia: Go to bed when this is done.
Ash: Alright, I'm going.
Delia: And change into your pajamas, OK?
Prof. Oak: ...to help them develop their special powers.
Ash: I'm going.
Ash (V.O.): Pokémon - I Choose You!
(Later that night, Ash is fast asleep)
Ash: Raising Bulbasaur. That'd be really simple. It's perfect for beginners. (dreams of picking Bulbasaur) I choose you, Bulbasaur! Then there's Squirtle. (dreams of picking Squirtle) I choose you, Squirtle! Choose it or lose it. Ahh.
(Dodrio calls)
Ash: Oh hold on, Charmander. Those in the know say that's the best way to go. (dreams of picking Charmander) I choose you, Charmander!
(In his sleep, Ash accidentally throws his alarm clock at the wall and wakes up to the sound of it hitting the wall)
Ash: What?... Oh, no! What time is it?! Squirtle, Bulbasaur Charmander, anyone is fine -- just please, save one for me.
(A crowd has gathered to see another trainer off. Ash is running to Prof. Oak's lab to get his first Pokémon after having overslept)
Cheerleaders: Gary, Gary, he's our man! If he can't do it, no one can! Gary, Gary-
Ash: (cuts through) Oh, sorry!
Cheerleaders: (gasp) Hey!
(Ash crashes into a trainer and falls down)
???: Hey, watch where you're going! Well, you must be Ash. Better late than never, I guess. At least you get the chance to meet me!
Ash: Gary?
Gary: Mister Gary to you! Show some respect! (smug) Well Ash, you snooze, you lose, and you're way behind right from the start! I got a Pokémon and you don't.
Ash: You... got your first Pokémon?
Gary: That's right, loser, and it's right inside this Pokéball (takes out his Pokéball and begins spinning it)
(spectators cheer)
Cheerleaders:  Let's go, Gary, let's go! Yeah yeah!
Gary: (addressing the crowd) Thank you, fans! Thank you for this great honor! I promise you that I will become a Pokémon master, and make the Town of Pallet known all around the world! (poses triumphantly as the spectators cheer again)
Ash: (to Gary) Excuse me?
Gary: (while posing) Yeah?
Ash: I was just wondering if you could tell me what kind of Pokémon you got.
(Gary puts his arm down and, with one eye closed, leans close to Ash, one arm at his hip, the other holding the Pokéball)
Gary: None of your business! If you showed up on time, you would've seen that I got the best Pokémon from Professor Oak. It's good to have a grandfather in the Pokémon business, isn't it?
(The scene cuts to him and his cheerleaders in his car, saying goodbye to the crowd)
Cheerleaders: Let's go Gary, let's go! (repeat)
Gary: Thank you for coming out to see history in the making! Now I, Gary Oak, am off to learn the ways of the Pokémon trainer!
(He and the cheerleaders drive off. Ash, left alone behind everyone, clenches his fists and grits his teeth)
Ash: Auugh, I'll show you!
Prof. Oak: So you finally decided to show up after all.
Ash: Oh, Professor Oak, where's my Pokémon?
Prof. Oak: Your Pokémon?
Ash: Yes, I'm ready.
Prof. Oak: You look like you're ready for bed, not for Pokémon training. I hope you don't think you're gonna train in your pajamas.
Ash: Oh no, professor, I got messed up this morning, and I was a little late, but believe me, I'm ready for a Pokémon.
(Inside Prof. Oak's lab)
Ash: I thought about it a lot, and it took me along time, but I finally decided to choose... Squirtle! Ohhh!
Prof. Oak: Already taken by someone who was on time.
Ash: Oh, I wish I hadn't overslept. But now I would choose as my Pokémon... Bulbasaur! What?
Prof. Oak: That was also taken by a kid who wasn't late.
Ash: Ohh, well that's no problem, because my Pokémon will be... Charmander. Ohhhh!!
Prof. Oak: The early bird gets the worm, or in this case, uhh, the Pokémon.
Ash: Does that mean all the Pokémon are gone?
Prof. Oak: Well, there is still one left, but I --
Ash: Professor, I'll take it!!
Prof. Oak: I think I should warn you -- There is a problem with this last one.
Ash: I have to have a Pokémon.
Prof. Oak: Well, in that case...
???: Pikachu. ("Hello there.")
Prof. Oak: It's name is Pikachu.
Ash: Oh, it's so cute, it's the best of all!
Prof. Oak: You'll see.
Ash: Oh, hi Pikachu.
Pikachu: Pika... ("Let go...")
Prof. Oak: It's also known as an Electric Mouse -- It's usually shy, but can sometimes have an electrifying personality.
Ash: I see what you mean.
Prof. Oak: Shocking, isn't it? Now take these --your Pokédex and Pokéballs.
Ash: Thank... YOUUUUU!!!!!
Prof. Oak: YOU'RE WELCOME!!!!
(Outside Delia Ketchum, Ash's neighbor Ben, and a small group of people stand outside making noises in celebration of Ash beginning his journey.)
Ash: Mom!
Delia: Oh, Ash I'm so proud of you. You're finally gonna fulfill your dream and start your Pokémon training. But I'm -- I'm gonna miss you so much. Oh, my little boy.
Pikachu: Pikachu. ("Dumb human.")
Delia: I packed your sneakers and jeans, nice clean shirts and underwear, and your favorite snacks and some hot chocolate in case you want something hot. But, be careful not to burn yourself. And a pair of rubber gloves to do your laundry, and a new clothesline to hang it out to dry --
Ash: Mom, you're embarrassing me in front of all these people! -- Don't you know I'm a big kid, now? Pokémon trainers can take care of themselves.
Delia: I understand. Hmm? That's your Pokémon?
Pikachu: Pikachu. ("Forget it.")
Ash: Yep, that's my Pokémon.
Pikachu: Pi. ("I don't like this kid.")
Ash: Uhh... With Pikachu at my side, I'll get all the Pokémon in the world.
Ben: That's a tall thing to say, but I'm sure you can get it done.
Ash: Ben?
Ben: That's right, buddy. Me and your mom figured that you and your Pokémon might want some company, so I'm coming with you.
Ash: Alright! Now I have twice the company, you and my Pokémon!
Delia: Ash, I thought all Pokémon stayed inside their Pokéballs. Why doesn't this one?
Ash: Uh.. Oh, yeah, that's right. Pikachu, get in the ball now.
Pikachu: Pi-ka-chu-pi-ka-chu-pi-ka-chu ("No-I-will-not-go-inside-that-ball-so-stop-it")
(Ash continually tosses the Pokéball at Pikachu in rhythm)
Delia: Oh, you're playing catch; you're friends already.
Ash: Uh, sure. Pikachu and I are real pals, right?
Ben: Doesn't look like he's too keen to be hanging around with you Ash.
Ash: Don't worry, Professor Oak told me that Pikachu is a little shy.
Ben: You got a point, some Pokémon can be timid around humans. Right, Mrs. Ketchum?
Delia: True. But it's a little weird.
Ash: Weird?
Pikachu: Pi... ("I'll show you weird...")
Ben: I don't think you should have said that! Hit the dirt! (dives away as Pikachu electrocutes everybody)
Prof. Oak: Those rubber gloves your mom packed will come in handy.
Ash: Why?
Prof. Oak: Rubber blocks electricity.
Ash: Great!!!!!
Delia: Don't forget to change your underwear... every single day.
Ash: O.K.
Ben: (in thought) I have a feeling that those two are gonna need some time to get to know each other.
(Later, Ash and Ben are seen leaving Pallet, but Ash is dragging Pikachu along by a rope)
Ash: Pikachu, are you gonna be like this the whole way?
Pikachu: Pi. ("Yeah.")
Ash: It is because you don't like me?
Pikachu: Pika-pika. ("Absolutely.")
Ash: Well, I like you a lot. And since you're the Pokémon I'm training, don't you think you could be a little nicer and just open your mouth and tell me what's wrong? (Pikachu does so) Uh, that's not exactly what I meant. Is your name all you can say?
Pikachu: Pika. ("Yeah.")
Ben: Yeah. You see, Ash. There are no known Pokémon in the world that can speak English, and I should know because I traveled far and wide to become an experienced and veteran Pokémon trainer. Across every region I've been in, I haven't seen one single Pokémon species that can speak like you and I can.
Ash: Well, then Pikachu, you're just like all Pokémon, all you should act like one, and get inside the Pokéball -- just like it says in the Pokédex.
Pokédex (male): While being trained, a Pokémon usually stays inside its Pokéball.
Ash: You see?
Pikachu: Pika! ("There's more!")
Pokédex (male): However, they are many expectations: Some Pokémon hate being confined.
Ben: Indeed, there are a few Pokémon back at my uncle's ranch that DO NOT like being inside a Pokéball.
Ash: OK, then, this ought to make things better. (unties Pikachu) And I'll get rid of these. (removes the gloves) How's that?
Pikachu: Pi. ("No.")
Ash: Still not good enough?
Pikachu: Pika. ("Still no.")
Ben: I'm sure Pikachu will warm up to you, just like my starter Pokémon, Charmander. Just give him some time. (hears something) Hmm? What's that noise?
(Everyone looks and sees a bird-like Pokémon near by)
Ash: A Pidgey.
Pokédex (male): Pidgey is a flying Pokémon. Among all the flying Pokémon, it is the gentlest and easiest to capture. A perfect target for the beginning Pokémon trainer to test his Pokémon's skills.
Ben: That's one of the very first Pokémon I captured when starting out on my own Pokémon journey!
Ash: This is great. It's our lucky day. Pikachu, go get it.
Pikachu: Chu. ("Forget it, chump.")
Ash: Aren't you ever gonna listen to me?
Pikachu: Chu. ("No.")
Ash: But why not?
(Pikachu runs up a tree)
Ben: Gee. That Pikachu DEFINITELY does not like you.
Ash: OK, I get the message. I don't want your need help or need it. I can get that thing all by myself.
All heroes: Who's that Pokémon? It's Pikachu!
(Back to the show)
(Ash tosses his backpack aside and gets out a Pokéball)
Ash: All right, I pledged to get all the Pokémon in the world. Now I'm ready to take the next step to be the number one Pokémon master. Enjoy your last moments of freedom, Pidgey, 'cause your mine. Pokéball, go!
(The Pokéball hits and lands)
Ash: I did it!
Ben: Don't count your chickens before they hatch, Ash! Wild Pokémon will put up a struggle to try and break out of the Pokéball once inside during the capture process!
Ash: Huh?
(Right on cue, the Pokéball starts wiggling, and Pidgey soon breaks out and runs away)
Ash: Aww, I blew it.
Pokédex (male): To capture a Pokémon, you usually have your own Pokémon battle with the other.
Ash: Now he tells me. But I have to do everything myself!
Ben: I don't think your Pokédex can help you with your Pokémon obedience problem, but don't feel too bad. I couldn't catch every Pokémon that I saw in one shot, either.
Ash: Wait, I got an idea.
Ben: What ever it is, I don't think it's gonna work.
(Ash is seen sneaking up on the Pidgey with his pajama top in hand)
Ash: Ok... just be quiet... there's nothing to be afraid of. Hi, little friend...
(Ash proceeds to try and capture the Pidgey using the pajama top)
Ash: Sorry, buddy!
(Suddenly, the Pidgey creates a blast of wind to free itself)
Ash: Huh, what happened?
Pokédex (male): Pidgey's Gust power creates tornadoes. It also has a Sand Attack.
Ash: Sand?!
(The Pidgey begins to use Sand Attack to blind Ash in order to escape)
Ash: Guess it's not my lucky day.
Ben: Unfortunately. And you're luck is getting a bit worse, look!
(Ash looks and sees a creature snooping around in his backpack)
Ash: Hey! Get outta there.
Pokédex (male): A Forest Pokémon, Rattata -- it likes cheese, nuts, fruits, and berries.
Ash: Yeah, but this isn't a forest, it's an open field.
Pokédex (male): It also comes out into open fields to steal food from stupid travelers.
Ash: That means I... I'm stupid?
Ben: I'm pretty sure your Pokédex didn't mean that. Besides, I, too, had a snack swiped by a Pokémon once.
(A small group of Pidgey pop up in the grass but Ash throws a rock at them in frustration)
Ash: Hmm? Well... hmm? I'll get you this time.
(Ash picks up another rock when he sees what he thinks is a Pidgey)
Ben: I wouldn't if I were you, I think I recognize that shape.
(The rock hits the Pokémon)
Ash: I got it.
(The Pokémon turns to reveal it's not a Pidgey)
Ash: I wonder what that is.
Pokédex (male): Unlike Pidgey, Spearow has a terrible attitude. It is very wild and will sometimes attack other Pokémon and humans.
Ben: That's what I feared, Spearow have pretty short tempers!
(The Spearow attacks Ash, but soon changes targets when it sees Pikachu)
Ash: Hey, leave Pikachu alone! It didn't throw the rock!
Pokédex (male): Wild Pokémon tend to be jealous of human-trained Pokémon.
Ben: This sort of thing never happened to me when I was on my journey!
(Spearow proceed to nearly knock Pikachu out of the tree)
Ash: Pikachu!
(With one Thunder Shock, Pikachu takes it back down to earth)
Ash: Uh, you got it!
Spearow: Spearow! ("Hear my call!")
Ash: Uh-oh!
Ben: Sounds like it's calling for backup! The cry of a Spearow can be heard over a kilometer, or half a mile, away, meaning that it's fellow Spearow will be getting the message and come right after us!
(Soon, a whole flock of Spearow come flying towards them)
Ash: Uhh, should we run?
Pikachu: Pikachu. ("Yes.")
Ben: Normally I'd use my Pokémon, but there's just too many of them to take down at once! Run for it!
(Soon, all three of them are running)
Ash: Don't worry, Pikachu, no matter what, I'll save you.
(However, Pikachu pulls ahead)
Ash: Don't run ahead. I said I'd protect -- OW!
(The Spearows fly past Ash and Ben and attack Pikachu)
Ash: Leave it alone, Spearows!
Ben: Those Spearows are being relentless!
Ash: Pikachu!
(Ash picks Pikachu up and both he and Ben soon reach a waterfall)
Ben: Uh oh! We're caught between a flock and a tall place! There's only one thing to do, now!
Ash: Well, here we go!
Ben: Here goes nothing! GERONIMO!!!
(Soon, after they jump, our heroes are swept through the water, passing all sorts of Pokémon. Further down river, a young girl is seen fishing and she soon gets a bite)
???: Oh! Oh! Hey, I got a bite! Oh, wow, I really think this could really be a big one!
(The girl pulls Ash up onto shore)
???: Nah, it's just a kid. Oh and a Pokémon. Oh, are you OK?
Ash: Yeah, I'm OK.
???: Not you! Look what you done to that poor little thing. Is it breathing?
Ash: I, I... I think so.
Ben: (gasps for air) Ash! You and Pikachu alright? Those Spearows will be coming for us any moment!
???: Well, just don't sit there, it needs a doctor right away. There's a medical center not to far from here. You've got to get moving now!
Ash: You mean a hospital?
???: Yes, for Pokémon.
Ash: OK, can you tell me, which way do I go?
???: That way.
Ben: Thanks. What's your name?
???: Misty's the name, and who are you two?
Ben: I'm Ben, special agent of the Pokémon Defense Unit. And that's Ash Ketchum, my friend and neighbor.
Ash: They're coming back! Run!
(Ash gets on Misty's bike)
Misty: Hey, what are you doing?
Ash: I'm borrowing this!
Misty: Wait! Hey, that's my bike!
Ash: I'll give it back someday!
Ben: Don't worry, ma'am, you have my word that your bicycle will be returned, but this is a Pokémon emergency! Now to get away from those birds, but that bike only has one seat. Guess that means I'm stuck with running. Unless... I got it! (gets out a Pokéball) Let's go, Cinder!
Cinder: (whinnies)
Ben: Alright, Cinder. Run as fast as you can, we got some Spearows on our tail. And don't worry, Misty. Your bicycle will be returned to you, but Pikachu needs it.
???: Hey! What's going on?
Ben: Huh? Liam? Is that you?
Liam: Yeah, I heard the commotion while resting my feet, so what's going on?
Ben: Let's just say, my friend and neighbor, Ash, who just rode off on that young girl's bike, made a flock of Spearow pretty angry and we're trying to get away from them. I suggest that you follow, unless you want to get pecked by a Spearow, too. Now, hop on, Liam.
Liam: Lets go, Charmander.
Charmander: Charr ("Right!")
Liam: (climbs on with his Charmander with him and holds Ben ) Don't let those Spearow catch us, Ben.
Ben: Alright you two, hold on! Hi-ho Cinder!!! Away!!!
(They soon ride off to catch up with Ash)
Misty: Oh, those three...
(Further on, it starts to rain)
Ash: Just hang on now, Pikachu, we're almost there.
Ben: This is the road to Viridian City! (looks back) Uh oh! Spearows incoming!
(The Spearows catch up and go on the attack, forcing Ash to go up a ramp and crash land as Pikachu flies out of the basket)
Ash: Pikachu!
(Ash crawls to his Pokémon as the rain continues to come down)
Ash: Pikachu... this can't happen. (hears the Spearows coming and gets out Pikachu's Pokéball) Pikachu, get inside. I know you're afraid of going in there, but if you're inside, maybe I can save you. Please, Pikachu, please listen to me and go inside. After that, then -- After that, just trust me!
Ben: Once inside the Pokéball, Pikachu, I'll take you the rest of the way to the Pokémon Center in Viridian. Now get in, quickly, while Ash distracts them!
Ash: Spearows, do you know who I am? I'm Ash, from the Town of Pallet. I'm destined to be the world's number one Pokémon Master. I can't be defeated by the likes of you. I'm going to capture and defeat you all! Do you hear me?
Ben: Pikachu, go inside the Pokéball, it's the only way!
Ash: Come and get me!
(The Spearows charge at Ash, then suddenly Pikachu jumps over to Ash's shoulder and leaps into the air, gets hit by a bolt of lightning and uses a Thunder Shock, blasting all the Spearow, one of them disappeared for a brief second and a Pokéball fell down and pinged, indicating its capture, as the storm ends after the Thunder Shock dissipates. After, Ash and Pikachu open their eyes)
Ash: Well, we beat 'em.
Pikachu: chu... ("Sure did...")
Ben: That was the most powerful Thunder Shock attack I've ever seen! Wasn't it, Cinder?
Cinder: (whinnies) ("Sure was.")
(Ash spots a Pokémon flying through the sky. Unknown to him and the others, it's the legendary Ho-Oh)
Ash: What's that?
Pokédex (male): There is no data. There are still Pokémon yet to be identified.
Ben: (in thought) No way! Is that? No, it couldn't be! (out loud) Alright Ash, let's get Pikachu to the Pokémon Center, and quick! And since I helped Liam get away from that flock of Spearow, he'll be joining us.
Liam: Yeah!
Narrator: This is just the beginning of the amazing adventures of Ash and Pikachu. Their journey is destined to be packed with non-stop action, millions of laughs, heart-pounding perils, and endless excitement. Together they'll encounter fantastic friends, evil enemies, and meet creatures beyond their wildest imagination. And as their story unfolds, we'll unlock the magic and mystery of a most wondrous place: The incredible world of Pokémon.
(Episode ends)